And her songs, they just rolled out across this lake.
And there was something about this lake that she got to get to by going now into a farm of roads with all these gates and stuff.
They're sort of encapsulated for her what truly held a part of her heart in Wales.
And after all this time, I'm going to come up with about a two minute poem, but anyway, that's the whole story behind it.
The pocket of peace in a maddened world, amid folds of worn green, great gaps of film it extends from day to day.
All in a moment, the scene rises in white, and the blooms in green, then from day to day, gives her cool refreshments.
Her perpetual gifts.
Uh oh.
Anyway, songs spawned a fisherman rolled out across her, tone gives birth to tone, unrehearsed creations born of stillness.
Close gently the gates, so when time and distance grows large between you and Cwmdeus, the vision of that fragile moment can remain to become a symbol of your genesis.
Sorry I missed that.
...and especially for tonight.
It's called the North American Northamallan, but it's really meant to be Seattle's first Northamallan in many, many years.
And it's a vision of what I had for tonight, and the vision was born mostly of Northamallans that I've known in Vancouver.
And there's one character in particular, called the Dark-eyed Melissa with sparrot tone in here, and most of you will recognize Alan Jones from Vancouver.
And of course, we have two sisters, the Alton and Soprano over there, the Wingate sisters.
And we also have somebody who left his wealthness like an undervalued trinket among old buttons in a drawer, and that's Phil Humphreys.
And you might recognize other people in here, but there's nothing crude, rude, or unrefined.
One man stands to welcome his old friends and strangers look for comfortable places.
He calls out, inviting all to sing, voices join, weak and unblended.
Then a glass is raised, a sip, a smile, a word exchanged, and a song finds its pride, filling itself with mountain and valley, and a hush, brooding beauty.
It plays itself against itself in an age-old game, running from pure heart to mountain sides full of wildly colored goats.
The thought turns boiling over and dieboxes the soldier faster and faster than some speed, almost outside of itself until it settles into the comfort of a well-worn hymn.
Out of that billowing blended sound comes silence, followed by a story of, I remember what I remember when I was a little boy.
Then a dark-lipped, malithluous baritone resurrects the boyhood of that wild, word-worshipping welshman who captured each right and smell and sound,
that left a heart within us all and made us each king of our own little apple towns.
Dylan's boywood vanishes in a new dance of flute and fiddle, strings and wind.
Two sisters follow, a lyric teased between also and soprano.
So one by one, each comes to offer a talent to the whole.
Some timid, some easy, and some who until this night have left their welshness like an undervalued trinket among old buttons in a drawer.
They bring up their awkward offering until there is no more.
Then those who are hungry eat, the thirsty drink and the tired go home to sleep, while the unsatisfied nest against the piano to sing.
Of mountain and valley, shadow and light, of loving and dying and anxiety and flight, of mothers and fathers and time beyond time,
passionate spirits, tempered in righteousness, carry three winters and blankets of faith.
Tonight each has been a giver, each a taker.
Happy this night for the love of that ancient land.